+++
title = "Zero To One"
author = ["Victor Vialard"]
lastmod = 2021-02-19
tags = ["book"]
draft = false
+++

tags
: [Peter Thiel]({{< relref "20210122190255-peter_thiel" >}}) [Start-Ups]({{< relref "20210124000000-start_ups" >}})

## About the book {#about-the-book}

This book stems from a course about [Start-Ups]({{< relref "20210124000000-start_ups" >}}) that [Peter Thiel]({{< relref "20210122190255-peter_thiel" >}}) taught at Stanford back in 2012. Its aim was to students help students understanding how they could use their skills to build the future, and go beyond what they learnt in academics.

## Lesson learnt from the chapters {#lesson-learnt-from-the-chapters}

1.  Small reflection about the _contrarian question_, and how it should shape entrepreneurship.

2.  Lessons learnt from the Start-Up world after the Internet Bubble (that are opposite to what most people think are the right ones)

    1.  _It is better to risk boldness than triviality_
    2.  _A bad plan is better than no plan_
    3.  _Competitive markets destroy profit_
    4.  _Sales matters just as much as the product_

3.  Monopolies, as opposed to perfect competition relayed by most economists, are essential for capitalism to prosper. Monopolist drive innovation, and encourage companies to innovate beyond what is strictly profitable at the beginning. _Creative monopolies are at the heart of successful businesses._ Successful companies will try to hide their monopoly, and instead present themselves as tiny blobs of a larger environment.

4.  _Competition_ as an ideology, and encourages people to fight without apparent reasons. This is similar to Shakespeare, where alike people are obsessed with their competition.

    > Exposing what is mortal and unsure
    > To all that fortune, death, and danger date,
    > Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
    > Is not to stir without great argument,
    > But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
    > When honor's at the stake.

5.  The value of a business is simply its ability to generate cash flows in the future (_discounter cash flows principle_). To achieve this, start-ups need (but not simultaneously) :

    - _Proprietary technology_ (at least 10 times better than previous ones, which is why it is better to create something new)
    - _Network effects_ : networks effects make the product more useful as more people use it, but you need to start small, often with hard to perceive business opportunities)
    - _Economies of scale_
    - _Monopoly_ : branding can generate a monopoly (like Apple), but the product has to come first.

    With this in mind, you can build a monopoly doing the following :

    1.  /Start small and monopolize : (starts with a small network with few competitors (ex: PayPal initially target sellers on Ebay)
    2.  _Scale-up_ : incrementally expand into related and slightly broader markets (ex: Amazon)
    3.  _Don't disrupt_ : this places you start-up in a competitive bubble, and can only attack trouble.

6.  The central idea of this chapter is _indefinite optimism_ (the future is going better but since you don't know exactly how, you don't make specific plans). This mentality explains why graduates from the best universities try to rearrange already existing structures, and don't invest themselves in innovations. Money becomes the end of this indefinite process, as if the Darwinian theory applied to capitalism. _Chance is not the primary factor for success, **planing** is._

    > _"Victory awaits him who has everything in order, luck some people call it. Defeat is certain for him who has neglected to take necessary precautions in time; this is called bad luck." (**Roald Amundsen**)_

7.  We should never underestimate _exponential growth_. Venture capitals follow the Paretto law, since only a handful of companies will largely outperform the rest combined. Instead, most VCs focus on the "spray and pray" technique, which can only lead people to miss this exponential return, and instead look for immediate opportunities. Thiel's golden rule is to invest in a start-up when is has the _"potential to return more value then the entire find"_.

8.  There are many more secrets left to discover, but they will yield only to the relentless searchers. Thiel classifies secrets in two categories : natural ones (learnt from observing our physical world) and those about people (things that people ignore about themselves). Often, the two are link for to find a new idea, you have to look for what no one else is looking, or isn't allowed to say. You should also not tell more about your secrets than what's needed, and only share this information with your conservationists.

9.  For a start-up to have a good start, funders must carefully distinguish _ownership, possession and control_. Potential conflicts between ownership and control (that is between founders and investors) cab b especially damaging, which is why the board should comprise no more than three individuals.
    A start-up should get its workers involved by properly compensating them, and offer them part ownership of the company itself (equity), rather than high salaries. That way, individuals will be oriented toward creating value in the future, and be committed on the long term.

10. You should hire conspirators, and build something like a cult, except right about something those outside have missed. Every individual in your company should be different in the same way, and be devoted to the project's success. To avoid conflicts at PayPal, Peter Thiel made each co-worker responsible of a single things so that people look different from the inside. You should not hire Consultants, for when considering belonging to a company, they are nihilists.

    > "No company has a culture, every company **is** a culture"

11. People often underestimate how _distribution_ (selling a product) matters. Nerd often despise sells and its lack of transparency, but distribution can create a monopoly even without differentiation (whereas simply the product can not). Economists call this _path-dependence_, but it's really not about mere hazard. Thiel draws five categories of distributions, depending on the relation between CLV (Customer Lifetime Value) and CAC (Customer Acquisition Cost) :

    1.  _Complex sales_ (> \$100.000) : every deal requires close attention, and you can only make one or two deals a year, expecting a 100% increase each year ;
    2.  _Personnal sales_ (> \$10.000) : you have to establish a process in which modestly sized sales with move the product to a wider audience ;
    3.  _Dead-zone_ : distribution is the hidden bottleneck...
    4.  _Marketing & Advertising_ (< \$100) : the product has a mass appeal but lacks any viral distribution mean
    5.  _Viral Marketing_ (< \$1) : users incite their friends to become users of your product, which lead to an exponential growth. You can even trigger this chain reaction by rewarding users for inviting others (like PayPal did).

    > All of us want to believe that we make up our own mind, that sales doesn't work on us. But it's not true.

12. Technology won't replace humans, but will instead empower us. Computer don't have the same needs humans do : they have nominal requirements, and don't yearn for more. Computers are good at processing large amounts of data, but incapable at making decisions that seem rudimental to humans. We are biased toward this indefinite ideology of computers replacing humans, because we only consider small feats concerning computers alone. Instead, Thiel built PayPal as a hybrid computer-human system, after the FBI showed interest in PayPal's financial fraud detection mechanism.

    > The most valuable business in the coming decade will be built by entrepreneurs who seek to empower people rather than try to make them obsolete

    |                              | SUPPLY (of labour)                   | DEMAND (for resources)                           |
    | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------ |
    | GLOBALIZATION (other humans) | Substitution (_"the world is flat"_) | Mimetic consumer competition                     |
    | TECH (better computers)      | Complementary                        | Machines don't demand : all value goes to people |

13. A case study about the cleantech bubble, in which \$50 billions worth of investments were lost. This is a symbol of _social entrepreneurship_ failure, that is when people try do well and do good, but miss that doing something good means doing something different. According to Peter Thiel, the start-ups operating in this market failed to answer the seven questions every business must answer :

    | Topic        | Question                                                                    | Cleantech failure                                                                                                               | How Tesla Succeeded                                   |
    | ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
    | Engineering  | Can you create a **breakthrough** instead of incremental improvements       | 10x improvement is necessary to overcome expenses, risk faced by products & scepticism                                          | Integrate many components into superior markets       |
    | Timing       | Is now the right **time** to create your business ?                         | The solar panel was an old invention (Bell Labs, 1954), and one that didn't grow exponentially (efficiency went from 6% to 25%) | \$450m from "green" gov stimulus                      |
    | Monopoly     | Are you starting with a **big share of a small market** ?                   | Energy is a trillion \$ economy, but one flooding with competition                                                              | Small market of luxury race cars                      |
    | People       | Do you have the right **team** ?                                            | Business men, not nerds                                                                                                         |                                                       |
    | Distribution | Do you have a way to not just create but **deliver** your product ?         |                                                                                                                                 | Tesla owns its distribution chain                     |
    | Durability   | Will your **market position** be defensible 10 and 20 years in the future ? | Failure to anticipate competition in manufacturing the same green products in China                                             | Car is one of the biggest purchase decision ones make |
    | Secret       | Have you identified an **opportunity** others haven't ?                     | Broad conventions on which everyone agreed                                                                                      | People wanted to _appear_ green                       |

14. The most successful entrepreneurs were _insider-outsider_, meaning at the same time on both tails of a normal distribution. You need a great founder to get the best out of your employees.

15. For the philosopher Nick Bostrom, there are four kinds of patterns to describe the future : _reccurent collapse_, _plateau_, _extinction_ and _take-off_. A plateau (perfect globalization), would also mean an economic intense competition. We would need technologies to sustain this pressure, unless conflicts erupt first. When considering the take-off, Ray Kurzwell images a world were technology will transcend our understanding : this is called the _Singularity_. But every important moment of our life is a singularity, and what really matters is what you do with it.

> Our task today is to find singular ways to create the new things that will make the future not just different, but better—to go from 0 to 1. The essential first step is to think for yourself. Only by seeingour world anew, as fresh and strange as it was to the ancients who saw it first, can we both re-create it and preserve it for the future.
